This is the README file for Hanzi Quiz 0.3.1, 
Copyright 2003 by Forrest Cahoon (hanziquiz@abstractfactory.org).

Hanzi Quiz is distributed under the terms of the GNU General Public
License.  See the file COPYING for details.


REQUIREMENTS:

This version of Hanzi Quiz uses Dynamic HTML, and is much slicker than
the previous version which relied on reloading pages with JavaScript-
generated content.  This requires a more recent browser.  Mozilla or
its commerical variant Netscape Navigator (version 6 or greater) will
work, as will Microsoft Internet Explorer version 5 or greater.

If you're stuck with an older browser, you can still use the old
version, which I'll try to leave up on the web for a while longer.  I
highly encourage you to get a newer browser, though.  I especially
recommend Mozilla (http://mozilla.org/).


RUNNING HANZI QUIZ:

To run Hanzi Quiz, open the file "hanziquiz.html" in your browser,
making sure that the other files in this distribution reside in the
same directory (as they should when you unpack it).  Simple!


CHANGING FONT SIZES:

It would be impossible for me to get the fonts to be appropriate sizes
on all the different browsers, OSes, and screen resolutions where
Hanzi Quiz might be run.

I am distributing this with font sizes in the code which look decent
in MSIE on Windows with a screen resolution of 1024x768 because I
suspect that that is the most common configuration.  That's not the
configuration I personally use: it's too small in Mozilla on my Debian
GNU/Linux box with a screen resolution of 1280x1024.

The font sizes are specified in a stylesheet at the top of
hanziquiz.html.  I have left my personal font configuration "commented
out" there.  If the default sizes don't suit you, you can change the
comments to use mine instead, or you can edit the values however you
please.


ADDING/CHANGING HANZI:

All the data for the quiz is in the file hanzicards.js, so named
because I thought of them as decks of flashcards.  It should be easy
to edit this file and add the words of your choice.  It's also
possible to add any number of "decks" (not just one- and
two-character).  Hopefully it's easy enough to figure out how to do
this by inspection of the file.


ABOUT THE PINYIN:

Pinyin is a system of writing the pronunciation of Chinese words.  If
you're studying Chinese, you're probably familiar with it.  Now that
I've switched to Unicode in version 0.3, pinyin is represented with
proper accent marks to indicate the tone.  This is a great improvement
over the ASCII-ish hack of using tone numbers at the ends of the words
used in the previous version.

I wrote a Perl program to convert ASCII + tone number pinyin into
properly accented UTF-8.  This utility, named "utf8ify_pinyin.pl", is
included in the distribution in the hopes it will prove useful, but is
not needed to run Hanzi Quiz.

ABOUT THE ENGLISH:

Like all languages, Chinese words have a lot of subtlety in their
meanings, yet I have to sum up those meanings with just a few words.
Do not take the English meanings too literally!  Often they are just
the most common meaning, or the meaning the character would have by
iteself even though it usually occurs in combinations with other
characters.  They are really only meant as "reminders".
I'm not trying to teach you Chinese -- just help you learn it!


TODO:

* At the end, in addition to presenting a list of wrong guesses, slow
  guesses could be listed, because those items supposedly haven't been
  learned as well as the others.

CHANGELOG:

Version 0.3.1:

* The answers to recently-asked questions are not presented as choices
  in subsequent questions.

* Now works in Mac IE5+ 
  (while still working in Mozilla and Win IE5+ ...  all these different
  browsers with their unique bugs and workarounds are driving me batty!)

Version 0.3:

* A complete rewrite, using DHTML and Unicode to create a program far
  superior to the previous ones.

Version 0.2a:

* Fixed a bug which made the top choice never be the correct answer.

Version 0.2:

* Seperate lists of one-character and two-character words, so that
  the choices are always taken from the same list (but the questions
  are mixed together).

* Timing, to encourage you to think quickly.

* A table of the questions you missed is shown at the end of the quiz.

Version 0.1:

* First working version.
